I hope you're really looking forward to
this year's JPMorgan around the island
race just for a try and share a few tips
of view from my experiences of the round
the island race so I think firstly and
probably most importantly is to make
sure that everybody knows their role on
board the boat even if that's making a
tea it's really important that everybody
understands where they're supposed to be
on the boat not only from a performance
point of view but also from a safety
point of view and so making sure you
have a good briefing and run through
that so everybody's happy it's obviously
in some ways quite a simple course going
around the other white but also there
are a lot of sand banks and wrecks and
also marks of the course so really make
sure that you've gone through the
sailing instructions you understand the
course you've got someone on board the
boat who's got a really good
understanding of the navigation and the
course to get around this starts going
to be a huge part of the race and
they're gonna be up to 18 hundred boats
approximately out there so it's really
important to try and get a transit at
such a long line so I'd be using the
transit marks on the yacht squadron or
something on the mainland Shore which
can help you have a transit very
important and maybe you know doing a few
practice runs at the line to try and
work out your time on distance and and
how easy it is to spot where you're on
the line then after that trying to find
some space for so many boats around
course you're racing but you know maybe
as opposed to a normal race maybe just
back off a little bit and it's a long
course I think you've got plenty of time
to find the right time to overtake the
other boats and not get too too keen and
too close the tides are going to be a
big part of the race as always as an
element of risk involved with that you
know how much you want to try to stay
out of the tide or in the tide and going
in shore or offshore so again I think
very important to have someone on board
the boat who's you know happy with the
navigation and maybe you know
we all want to push it as hard as we can
but maybe just step back a bit on the
risk you know running aground is never
given some some areas of the island it's
not too sandy it's more rocky so trying
to avoid that if you can it can be a
really long race it you know doesn't
matter what type of boat you're in if
there's not much wind it's a long course
can take a long time so make sure you've
got plenty of food on water on board and
you know it's a pretty rubbish job but
somebody's got to do it so you know
really take it on and be responsible for
keeping your team fully filled up and
happy finally it's a 5 a.m. start so
it's pretty early so I suggest I've
never been very good at this but you
should probably have an early night
on Friday night before the race we're
gonna be racing in the JPMorgan HD 45 so
we're really looking forward to getting
around the island catching up with
everyone and having a great race so
enjoy it and have a good day
you